---
layout: page
title:  "Assignment #13"
permalink: "/assignments/hw13"
---

Reading: 
* Griffiths, Chapter 11, as follows:

* You need Equation 11.33, .. .  So read Section 11.1.3 (Magnetic Dipole Radiation) up until equation 11.33.
* You need Equation 11.60, . . . So read Section 11.1.4 (Radiation from an arbitrary source) up until Equation 11.60: There are a lot of gory details that you don’t need to belabor, but please comment on the three approximations, and what p is in equation 11.60. 
* You need the famous Larmor formula equation 11.61 or 11.70 (there are two different derivations in the book.) ...So read Section 11.2.1 (Power Radiated by a Point Charge) up until 11.70.  I really like Griffiths treatment of the radiation fields so pay attention to that because it's cool.
* You need Equation 11.74.. .So keep reading Section 11.2.1 until the end. Check out that crazy warped donut figure at the end.  Your homework problem is about that. 


You may work together and get help from other students. Your solutions must be written in your own words, without looking at someone else's solutions while
you write them.

Don't forget the 9 points that we are looking for in your solutions (see Moodle).

In order to make sure you get your context and meaning/make sense points,
next to your answers, please put a “c” with a circle around it for context,
and an “m” with a circle around it for meaning.

______________________________________________________________________________

1. Griffiths 11.5 Dipole radiation WITHOUT using Approximation 3. 

2. Griffiths 11.10 A spinning ring with a sinusoidal charge density.

3. Griffiths 11.14 Bohr's model of the atom

4. Griffiths 11.15 Angle of maximum radiation


